Page updates: column-rule-* (#44755)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/properties/column-rule/index.md

> sidebar: cssref

Reviewer: Page looks good/consistent. FWIW a few redlinks, but I am sure you know about those.

---

> The **`column-rule`** [shorthand](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Cascade/Shorthand_properties) [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property sets the width, style, and color of the line drawn between columns in multi-column grid, flex, and multi-col layouts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`column-rule`** [shorthand](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Cascade/Shorthand_properties) [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property sets the width, style, and color of the lines drawn between columns in multi-column grid, flex, and multi-col layouts.
```

### Values

The `column-rule` property accepts a comma-separated list of values, including:

- `<gap-rule>`
  - : Specified as one, two, or three of the values listed below, in any order.
    - `<'line-width'>`

>       - : Is a {{cssxref("&lt;line-width&gt;")}}; a positive {{cssxref("&lt;length&gt;")}} or one of the three keywords, `thin`, `medium`, or `thick`. The default value is `medium. See {{cssxref("column-rule-width")}}.

Reviewer: Edit. Use Chrises

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - : A {{cssxref("&lt;line-width&gt;")}}: This can be one of the keywords `thin`, `medium`, or `thick`, or a positive {{cssxref("length")}} value, representing the width of the line. The default value is `medium`.
```

- `<gap-auto-repeat-rule>`
  - : A {{cssxref("repeat()")}} function, with `auto` as the first argument and one or more `<gap-rule>` values as subsequent arguments. The provided list of `<gap-rule>` values are repeated as many times as needed to fill in values for any column-rules that are not explicitly specified by other components of the property value.

## Description

The `column-rule` property defines the line style of any rule lines drawn in the gaps between columns in [multi-column](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Multicol_layout), [flex](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Flexible_box_layout), and [grid](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Grid_layout) containers with more than one column.

The `column-rule` is shorthand for {{cssxref("column-rule-color")}}, {{cssxref("column-rule-style")}}, and {{cssxref("column-rule-width")}}. The `column-rule`, along with the {{cssxref("row-rule")}} shorthand property, can also be set using the {{cssxref("rule")}} shorthand.

> The value is a comma-separated list of components, which can include `<gap-rule>`, `<repeated-gap-rule>`, and `<auto-repeat-gap-rule>` types. Each `<gap-rule>` defines the width, color, and style of the rule line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The value is a comma-separated list of components, which can include `<gap-rule>`, `<repeat-gap-rule>`, and `<auto-repeat-gap-rule>` types. Each `<gap-rule>` defines the width, color, and style of the rule line.
```

If the property value consists of only one `<gap-rule>`, all the column rules will be that style. If we declare the following, all column rules will be `dashed maroon 3px`:

```css

> column-rule: `dashed maroon 3px`;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
column-rule: dashed maroon 3px;
```

  inset olive 1px;
column-rule:
  solid maroon 5px,
  repeat(3, outset navy 10px, inset olive 1px);
```

This creates a list of seven rules. If the number of styles in the `column-rule` value's style list exceeds the number of gaps between columns, the excess style values are ignored. If the container on which this is applied has three columns, the rule in the first gutter will be `solid maroon 5px` and the second `outset navy 10px`.

If there are more gutters than styles, the list of styles is repeated. If the container has 8, 15, 22, or 29 columns, this sequence of styles will be repeated one, two, three, or four times, respectively, with the last rule being `inset olive 1px`.

### Auto-repeating line styles

The `repeat()` function also accepts `auto` as the first argument instead of a positive integer. With `auto` as the first argument, the [`<gap-rule>`](#gap-rule) values passed as subsequent arguments will be repeated as many times as needed to fill in values for any rules that are not explicitly specified by other components of the property value, if any.

```css
column-rule:
  solid maroon 5px,
  repeat(auto, dotted olive 1px, dashed navy 1px),
  solid maroon 5px;
```

> In this case, the first and last column rules will be `solid maroon 5px`, and all others will alternated between `dotted olive 1px` and `dashed navy 1px`. It doesn't matter if the container has 3, 6, 11, 16, or 21 columns, the first and last gutters will always have a thick solid maroon line painted between them (unless {{cssxref("column-rule-visibility-items")}} leads to no line being drawn), while all the other column rules will be thin, dotted or dashed, and olive or navy, which means if there are only 2 or 3 columns, there will be no dotted or dashed lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the first and last column rules will be `solid maroon 5px`, and all others will alternate between `dotted olive 1px` and `dashed navy 1px`. It doesn't matter if the container has 3, 6, 11, 16, or 21 columns, the first and last gutters will always have a thick solid maroon line painted between them (unless {{cssxref("column-rule-visibility-items")}} leads to no line being drawn), while all the other column rules will be thin, dotted or dashed, and olive or navy, which means if there are only 2 or 3 columns, there will be no dotted or dashed lines.
```
